---
copyright: 'Copyright IBM Corp. 2017'
link: 'annotations'
is: 'published'
---
# Annotations

Does your message need a little more context? Sounds like you could make use of some Annotations. Annotations include information which help describe or elaborate upon the original message. Annotations may be added to messages by apps or automatically by Watson Work Services.

Annotations have a type, which help clients understand what fields to expect on the annotation and how to use that particular annotation.

## Common Annotation Fields

Here are some of the common Annotation fields.

| property      | type   | description  |
| ------------- |:------ |:------------ |
| type          | String | Helps define which other fields to expect and how to interpret the Annotation |
| annotationId  | ID     | An autogenerated unique ID for the Annotation |
| created       | Date        | Date the Annotation was created |
| createdBy     | Person    | ID of the creator of the Annotation |
| updated       | Date    | Date the Annotation was updated |
| updatedBy     | Person | Person who last updated the Annotation  |

Note: The ID scalar type represents a unique identifier. The ID type appears in a JSON response as a String; however, it is not intended to be human-readable.

## Annotation Types

[Generic annotations](../guides/V1_wwsg_Spaces.md) use the type _generic_ and are used by applications to contribute content to a conversation.

[Moment annotations](../guides/V5_Annotation_Message_Moment.md) use the type _conversation-moment_ to mark the beginning of a moment and describe the conversation in the moment.

[Focus annotations](../guides/V2_Annotation_Message_Action_Identification.md) use the type _message-focus_ to call attention to and describe a specific part of a message.

[Information extraction annotations](../guides/V1_Annotation_Message_Information_Extraction.md) are a series of annotations added to messages to describe the messages, using the types _message-nlp-entities_, _message-nlp-keywords_, _message-nlp-docSentiment_, _message-nlp-relations_, _message-nlp-concepts_, _message-nlp-taxonomy_, and _message-nlp-dates_.

## Get Annotations

You can get annotations by [Listening to events in a space](../guides/V1_wwsg_Webhooks.md) or [Viewing a message from a conversation](../guides/V1_get_message.md).

When listening to events, listen to the **message-annotation-added** event and identify an annotation by checking the _annotationType_ in the event payload.

Listen to the **message-annotation-edited** event for updates to annotations. This includes especially periodic updates to the [Moment annotations](../guides/V5_Annotation_Message_Moment.md) in ongoing conversations. Again, check the _annotationType_ in the event payload.
