---
copyright: 'Copyright IBM Corp. 2017'
link: 'client-action-handler-callback'
is: 'experimental'
---

# Client Action Handler Callback API
Client action handlers allow your App to deliver a user experience to a Watson Work Services client. You will need to 
register a call back URL that the client can invoke for specified actions so that the client can recognize and enable 
your action for users. This callback API needs to be implemented for your app to process the client action. Once a user 
invokes your action through the client, your App can access context. Learn more by reading 
[Actions and Events](../guides/V1_ActionsEvents.md).

## URI scheme
_Host_ : **api.watsonwork.ibm.com**
_Scheme_: **HTTPS**

## Path
```
actionURL?actionHandlerContextToken=<token>
```

The **actionURL** is the one that was registered for the app. It is required to be a fully qualified URL using the 
**https** protocol.

The **actionHandlerContextToken** url parameter contains the client action handler context token which has to be used 
to get the action context information via Watson Work Services, see 
[Get action context information](./V1_GetActionContext.md) and also 
[Actions and Events](../guides/V1_ActionsEvents.md). This action handler token is generated by Watson Work Services as a result of a Watson Work Services client detecting that an app exists which could handle a particular user action. The client includes this token when it attempts to invoke the app's registered client action handler.


### Response

HTTP status code **200 OK**

There is no further evaluation of the response code and no error handling in place.
